well let's take you live to the United
Nations where the Security Council is
hearing arguments around the situation
in Gaza let's have a listen in as the
United States is Linda Thomas Greenfield
is currently speaking more
period And so that ultimately we can
together help create a future in which
Israelis and Palestinians live in states
of their own side by side in peace we're
committed to engaging constructively on
our resolution with you all in the days
to come to that end and we will continue
to tirelessly engage in direct diplomacy
and negotiations on the ground thank
you of the United States for her
statement and I now give the floor to
the representative of
China
okay we're just going to leave that
ongoing
conversation uh in the UN General
Assembly but what's been happening in
the last few moments is that there was
an Algerian draft
resolution uh about a ceasefire in Gaza
uh there were 13 votes in favor of that
call for a ceasefire the UK abstained
and the US blocked its passage with a
Vita so this is the third time that the
United States has exercised its Visa
veto I should say on Gaza at the UN
Security Council we were just hearing
there from the United States ambassador
to the UN Linda Thomas Greenfield well
to unpack all of that I'm joined Now by
Neda toi who is our un correspondent
Neda if you could just walk us through
what exactly has
happened yeah well vir uh the United
States again blocking an attempt in the
UN Security Council to get a resolution
through that calls for an immediate
humanitarian ceasefire it is something
the United States has objected to uh
they have of course uh supported its
Ally Israel and and their military
operation it it's attempt as Israel says
to go after Hamas but in quite frankly
the almost the entire rest of the
council has for months now been begging
for a un Security Council resolution the
Arab group of Nations warning that is
what is taking place in Gaza amounts to
the collective punishment of
Palestinians something the UN agrees
with as well saying the Arab group of
Nations it amounts to a genocide and we
heard the Algerian representative speak
before the vote and he warned that the
situation in Gaza was reaching a
critical juncture where the call for a
ceasefire would soon lose significance
he said every Palestinian is a target
for death extermination and genocide we
must ask ourselves how many innocent
lives must be sacrificed before the
council deems it necessary to call for a
ceasefire so we saw there 13 members uh
endorsing that call for a ceasefire the
United Kingdom abstaining the United
States blocking it and the US ambassador
to the UN Linda Thomas Greenfield said
that the resolution was wishful and
irresponsible she actually put forward
this argument that the resolution would
put in Jeopardy talks that the United
States is in at the moment with Israel
Egypt and Qatar to reach a temporary uh
pause uh in the fighting for six weeks
to get all of the hostages released and
the United States has actually proposed
its own alternative
resolution which registers its
opposition to Israel's plans uh of a
ground incursion into Rua and the
Ambassador said to council members that
that that their proposed resolution was
not as some members claimed an American
effort to cover for an imminent ground
incursion but rather it was a sincere
statement of their concern for the 1.5
million civilians who have sought Refuge
that us proposal is still being debated
just to break this down a bit so that
our viewers can kind of understand all
the different things that are being
tabled um Algeria tabled something the
US vetoed that the UK abstained what
exactly has the US put forward then as
its own draft and what's happening with
that yeah so the United States over the
weekend had signaled they were going to
veto this resolution by Algeria and they
have proposed an alternative resolution
now that resolution for the first time
does use the word ceasefire but it calls
for a temporary ceasefire as soon as
practicable now that very much Echoes
language that we have seen President
Biden using publicly saying that he's
used that in talks with Israel's prime
minister Benjamin Netanyahu again to get
that temporary pause in fighting for 6
weeks to get the hostages released so it
very much Echoes that language but it
does does have also strong language on
the US opposition to an Israel Israeli
ground incursion into Rua saying that
that would harm more civilians it would
forcibly displace them potentially into
neighboring countries a reference to
Egypt saying it would be a threat to
International Peace and security and so
as I say Linda Thomas Greenfield the US
ambassador said that that resolution is
very much a sincere uh representation of
the US's concern for civilians in rough
uh but you know what we've heard from
council members here regini is that it
is time for an immediate ceasefire and
and they want to see that in a security
Council product okay n toi we'll leave
you at the UN for the moment but I'm
sure we will return to events there
throughout the course of the afternoon